Okay, midlife crisis.
That's what I'm bringing it down to
because I got to do something now that
I'm not competing and all that stuff.
So, I've decided to try sumo. Who even
am I? I know. I know. I am sorry to
disappoint. But to be honest with you,
yeah, I do think it's a superior lever
objectively. So, I'm going to give it a
try. Something that I'll always say is
if you have the mobility and the
coordination to do a sumo deadlift, it's
a stronger lever. You'll be able to
deadlift a heavier weight. Now, I've
never been able to deadlift more than my
conventional. But I'll tell you why.
It's because I've been doing
conventional deadlifts for, you know,
over a decade. And the amount of times
I've done sumo deadlift is probably
less than 2% of the amount of times I've
done a conventional deadlift. So, I
haven't put equal amount of time in. So,
a lot of people have that comparison
game where they say, you know, why don't
you just try it? Why can't you deadlift
more with the sumo deadlift? All the
conventional deadlifters that hate on
sumo. if it's such an easy lift, why
can't you do more? And the answer is
because they've never practiced it or
they lack the mobility or coordination
to be able to achieve the position, but
mainly because they haven't practiced
it. If they did spend, if you get two
lifters that spends equal amount of time
on sumo that they do conventional, I
would guarantee the sumo deadlift will
always come out heavier. It's just a
superior lever.
It just is. Now, that doesn't mean I'm
going to automatically deadlift more
today than I will conventional, but now
I want to put the hours in. Doesn't mean
I'm not a conventional deadlifter
anymore, does it? Haven't switched
sides. There's no sides. Do you know
what I mean?
>> Well, fine. You know, it's like
whatever. But I still conventionally
deadlift. And in fact, something that I
teach uh sumo deadlifters, well, I teach
everyone with my programming is I
include conventional deadlift with all
my sumo deadlifters programs because I
believe it it does actually make you
stronger. This the conventional makes
you stronger, builds more muscle
than a sumo because a sumo is a superior
lever. The more efficient the exercise
is, the better it is at shifting loads,
but the worse it is at building muscle,
right? So therefore, by that logic, sumo
is not as good for building muscle or
strength, but it's a better way of
shifting a heavy load. So anyway, so
let's have a look. So here's a few
things. Here's a few guidelines for
doing a sumo deadlift for those of you
like me who don't do a sumo deadlift.
Starting in your comfortable wide
stance. So where is that? Everyone is
slightly different. It's not a matter of
the wider the better. So the wider you
go, the shorter the range of motion will
be. So that's true. I get even closer to
the bar. But in many instances, like a
wide grip bench press, just because you
can go wide doesn't mean you have the
strength to support that structure. So
this is me putting my adductors at the
most lengthened position. And I haven't
conditioned them to be strong here. So
it's not wise to start your sumo
deadlift journey with a super super wide
stance. It's not strong here. Something
that I like to go by a few guidelines is
when you get to the bottom position is
looking at the knee directly over the
foot. So, so perpendicular tibia or shin
bone. So, straight up. So, have a look
at this. So, this is me
where I believe is is the optimal
stance. So, that's where I'm looking at
the lines on this barbell. I'm putting
my shins like roughly around there. So
for everyone it's kind of slightly
different but for me that positions me
in a way that when I'm at the bottom
position my knee is directly over my
foot. Let's have a look at it again.
So this is my start position and the
objective is for my shin to be
completely perpendicular to the ground
or 90°.
And then the goal is to push straight
down.
So far so good. But also it's only 70
kg. So of course of course so far so
good. How does it feel? Of course feels
easy because it's only 70 kg. I don't
know yet. But I'm going to be able to
give you feedback as I go. So, I'm going
to warm up in small increments and I'm
going to do a a top set that's going to
be conservative. So, I don't want to do
a true one rep max. That's not the best
way to learn. And that's one of the
biggest problems that a lot of people do
when they try sumo is let's just say
arbitrarily 300 kg I can do
conventional. So, I should automatically
do more on my sumo or at least the same.
So they'll come on and they'll aim to,
you know, the same amount that they able
to do conventionally deadlifts, but
they've never trained the sumo before.
And then they're disappointed that they
can't do the same amount. And this is me
I'm talking about. And then they throw
in the towel and say, "Ah, I knew it.
I'm not suited for sumo deadlift." But
that's not the right approach. The right
approach is to treat it like an separate
exercise
and start from a low load and gradually
work up from there. So for me, what I'm
going to be doing is starting with a
conservative submaximal single, which I
don't know. I don't want to grind out.
So that's the rules for the day. I don't
even know where I'm headed.
My belt is always loose here. So I know
it's very light, but it's just like I
don't go tight belt anyway. So this
offers very minimal support, but it's
just comfort for me. And of course, I'm
using the high belt position, which if
you've been following me, you'll
recognize, but if you haven't, you'll
find it's very strange. The rule with
belt is comfort. So, this offers me
comfort. Not for everybody, but for a
lot of people, you should try it. Now,
foot position 45°. One thing that I know
is a problem that I've always done is,
you know, just outwards pressure. You
know, thinking about spreading the
floor. But have a look at my feet now.
The inside of the feet are lifting off
the ground. So, you don't want that. You
want full foot pressure. And now when I
think about this, one of the problems
that I see a lot of people doing is they
kind of, you know, arching the tail. So
this is the biggest error that a lot of
people make. So arching the tail to try
and have a neutral spine. That's a very
poor setup. The adductors, so these
muscles here are attached to your
pelvis. And when you arch the tail, it
increases tension on those muscles. And
a lot of times arching the tail causes
your knees to collapse, right? So what
you want to do is think of your pelvis
like it's a bowl of soup. Don't spill
the soup. So when you arch your tail,
you're spilling the soup, right? So I
like to think about the brace. So piss
up a wall. So that's pissing up pissing
up a wall. That's neutral pelvis
position. And then ribs down, right? So
the ribs down is how I contract my
rectus abdominis. So that's the six-pack
muscles. They attach bottom of the rib
cage and the top of the pelvis. And when
they contract, it just pulls those two
points together. So if someone was to
punch you, that's what you would do. You
wouldn't stretch out like this, which is
what a lot of people do and they
shouldn't do. Foot 45° roughly, even
foot pressure, open hips, so pissing up
a wall, right? So, I'm not arching my
tail. I'm pissing up a wall. And then
something I like to think about is just
bend over and grab the bar. Bend over
and grab the bar. So, a lot of people
try and, you know, sit into the position
like this and and they try and hold that
neutral spine position. And I believe
that's uncomfortable. And what I like to
think about is get your stance and just
bend over and grab the bar. Now from
here, armpits the pelvis, reach the
crown of the head to the ceiling. So
those are my favorite cues for all
deadlifts. Arm pits to pelvis is is lats
and reach the crown of the head to the
ceiling. So what that does, crown of the
head to the ceiling extends my thoracic
spine. So it's strong and rigid and then
armpits to pelvis locks it in by
recruiting my lats, which is the
strongest muscle for maintaining the
rigidity of your torso from start to
finish. So, what I don't want is my
spine to go like a fishing rod and and
be pulled into flexion because I don't
have my muscles switched on. Okay? So,
grabbing the bar, armpits the pelvis,
crown of the head to the ceiling. Okay?
Even foot pressure, and I'm just going
to drive the ground away.
Armpits, crown of the head. So that's
head down, crown of the head to the
ceiling, and then stand.
[Music]
And then we keep on doing the same
thing, but with heavier weight,
45° feet,
shins vertical when I'm at my start
position. So I'm roughly aiming for
these lines here. And for me, that's
fine. For a lot of people, I say it's
kind of like roughly. It's a nice start
point, but not for everybody. and then
arms straight down. So, here's another
mistake a lot of people make. They think
sumo means wide stance, close grip. So,
they grab it here. That's not the grip.
You want straight down. Straight down is
the most efficient. That's where you
travel the least distance. Okay. Now,
remember what I'm doing with the brace
is rib cage to pelvis. So, ribs down.
And I combine that with the breath hold.
And it's over. Just like that. But I'm
just going to do that singles now.
Single. Single. Single. That felt easy.
Felt like a lever. Oh, [__] I'm out of
the camera.
>> It's okay.
One of my most important cues with
setting up whether it's conventional or
sumo is starting with your arms
reaching. So you're not just hanging,
you're not just grabbing the bar. Reach
down, right? So So how should you feel
that when you do that? So this is
another way of contracting lats, but
you'll probably feel your pecs
contracting when you're doing that. So
that's why it's not just reaching down,
it's down and armpits to pelvis down and
back, right? So that's how we really get
lats. But also the reaching down makes
it so we're not approaching with short
or relaxed arms. I want them to be long
and stretched. The longer the arms, the
less distance we have to travel, the
more efficient it is. But also it
factors in injury prevention. One of
those injuries being a bicep tear. Now
bicep tear, don't get scared. Most
people aren't lifting weights heavy
enough to tear their biceps. I say, you
know, if you're lifting less than 200 kg
with your deadlift, it doesn't really
matter so much. But I don't want you to
learn how to deadlift with bad habits
because whenever I'm teaching someone,
I'm always teaching them to get well
beyond those numbers.
And I want you to be able to get to
those numbers with the right habits. So,
so bending your if you're bending your
elbows when you're doing a deadlift, you
are doing it wrong. Unless structurally
you just can't extend your elbow joints,
but reach down and armpits to pelvis,
crown of the head to the ceiling. Those
are my favorite cues.
[Applause]
So, the plan was 270. That was harder
than I thought. I thought that it was
going to come up pretty smoothly, but
anyway, uh that's just how it is. So,
it's still not like a 10 RP. There was
more in the tank, and I'm sure I could
go heavier, but um that's not wise. So,
what I'm going to do now is do some back
down sets. I'm going to go quite light
and something that I if you have a look
at my face when I'm working on this off
the ground, that's the hardest part of
the movement. So, that's where the
strain is. And I know that the biggest
fight is being patient off the floor,
which is the cue to maintain position.
So, I know especially when people are
learning, it's very easy to just kind of
especially if you're a conventional
deadlifter, you're used to kind of that
feeling where you just grab it and pick
it up off the floor. And it's a lot
slower with a sumo deadlift off the
floor, but then it's a faster lockout if
you have the patience off the floor and
you are able to hold tight and maintain
that position rather than being pulled
out of that position. So that's the
fight. And one of my favorite tools to
teach strength off the floor or that
hardest position is pause deadlifts. So
there's a difference between pause
deadlifts with a sumo and conventional.
I like to use deficit for my
conventionals, but with a sumo deadlift
with the wider stance, I think it's a
little bit too demanding on the hips
when I'm trying to condition my hips in
the first place. So, I think it's plenty
to just deadlift from the floor with the
normal sumo stance and practice some
pause sumo deadlifts. Now, I'm going to
start quite light. Uh, my first thought
is to take 100 kg off that bar so that I
don't have to think about really
fighting for the weight. So my first set
I'm going to do 170 kg and I'm going to
start doing some pause deadlifts, you
know. So, you know, roughly set of five.
Let's just do that for the next set and
see how we go.
Not bad. Not bad. Like it's
uncomfortable. I got to admit it's super
uncomfortable
because
it's a new technique to me.
I know the general guidelines and all
those things, but it's super
uncomfortable, but that's how it goes.
The idea is to make it comfortable by
doing it more times.
So, I'll just do one more set. That's um
yeah, I think I'm doing the right things
here. So spending time in the weakest
part. So if you see the way that I'm
doing all of them, it's kind of like I
don't even know if it looks hard. That's
the problem with sumo deadlift is a lot
of the times you don't see the hard part
because the bar is usually not moving.
When lifters go for max effort, they
fight and they're actually pushing but
the bar hasn't left the ground yet and
then all of a sudden it's left the
ground and it comes up real quick. So
people look at it and go, "Damn, that
was super easy." But that's because you
can't see how much fight and how much
effort is going into taking it off the
ground in the first place, which is
fine. I still believe it's a superior
lever. But I also believe that it's a
far more technical lift. And at the very
least, for my deadlift supporters, so as
we know, there's a sumo deadlift and
then there's a conventional deadlift,
right? So for my conventional deadlift
supporters, I'm not changing. I'm not
going to get off conventional deadlifts.
I do believe it's a superior deadlift
and I do believe it's a better test of
strength and strong men have got it
right. So strong men don't allow sumo
deadlifts because they know there's a
difference between the two. Powerlifters
allow for a sumo deadlift. So that kind
of solves the debate when people say is
it cheating? Well, no, because it's
allowed. So therefore, it's objectively
not cheating. Just like in high jump, I
think it was 1966, whatever the Mexican
Olympics, there was a fellow by the name
of Dick Fosbury,
who was one of the least athletic of the
high jumpers in the entire field. And he
won the gold medal with a very new
technique, which is now known as the
Fosbury flop. Before that, all the high
jumpers used to do all these types of
different jumps like a sciza or eastern
roll, western roll, whatever they used
to call them and it was less efficient
than the Fosbury flop. And so right now,
if you have a look at the world records,
they all only ever done with the
Fossbury flop because people learned how
to do it. And that's what's going to be
happening with the sumo deadlift in
powerlifting where it is actually
allowed. Unless of course they make a
change to the rules where they say it's
not cheating, but it's a different lift,
which I think should be the case to be
completely honest with you. I think that
it is a different lift. And I think it's
a superior lever. And I think it would
be cool if there was powerlifting with
sumo, powerlifting with conventional.
And unfortunately, you would see that
the sumo would have bigger totals. It's
how it is. But either way, I think it's
a a better feat of strength when you see
someone doing it with a conventional.
Now, back to my point. I think that
whenever I've introduced sumo deadlift
to any of my conventional deadlifters,
they come back to their conventional
deadlift far more technical because the
sumo deadlift is a lot more technical.
And if you are out of position, you feel
it a lot. It's really hard. So, you
really need a lot more precision with a
sumo deadlift than you do with a
conventional deadlift. conventional
deadlift, you've got a lot more room for
error, which means you can rip it off
the floor if you're slightly out of
position and you can really muscle it up
a lot better than what you can with a
sumo deadlift. At the highest levels
with the sumo deadlift, you really need
pinpoint accuracy, otherwise you're not
going to get the lift. So, I think at
the very least, you know, like
everything, it's not like which one are
you going to choose? It's one or the
other. There's no reason why we can't do
both. So, like as a powerlifter, I
perform high bar squats. I perform front
squats. I perform all different squat
patterns. Yeah, I've got the one that I
lifting with in competition that allows
me to shift the heaviest loads. Same
with as a powerlifter. If I was to
compete again and I was to develop my
sumo deadlift and it was a stronger
deadlift than my conventional, I'd be
silly not to use it in competition. But
at this stage, my conventional deadlift
is better. So, if I was to compete, it
would be conventional deadlift. But
we'll see. This is So, just so that you
know, last week, this isn't my absolute
first session. Last week, I did a a
mockup session. All I did was a heavy
single, one top single of 260 kg with no
back down work just to see if it was
worth pursuing. Uh, and I thought, okay,
it was kind of comfortable. So, that's
why I thought 270 kg seems like a
logical progression today. Anyway,
that's where I'm at. I've got one more
set and then I'm going to do my
quadricep accessory work.
>> Safety bars.
>> No more safety bar squats. We've got a
complete revamp of the program.
Not sure if you're watching my last
heavy
squat session, but I chickenened out. I
was meant to squat 290 kg, but I
chickenened out. Um, my last top set was
and then I did um yeah, that was it. I
thought, you know what, it's not worth
the risk. I just didn't feel it. It
wasn't right for the 290 kg. Um, so I
feel like I need to just really change
my strategy with that day. So, what was
my strategy? It was warming up. It was
long extensive warm-ups with which I
really enjoyed with stiletto squats
which allowed me to really target my
quadriceps as a great warmup. But, you
know, maybe it is starting to get to the
point where it is interfering, the
fatigue is interfering with my ability
to perform the top set. So, what I'm
going to do is I still love that
movement for quads development, but now
I'm going to separate it. So, I'm going
to do my stiletto squats on this day.
So, this is going to be my accessories.
And then on my low bar squat day, uh I'm
just going to start with straight up low
bar squats. Um yeah, so that's where I'm
at with this program. So next up is
going to be stiletto squats. But first,
one more set of five on a porum
deadlift.
[Applause]
Sum my deadlifts are done.
wasn't heavy. You know, it's not about
percentages with that back down work. A
lot of people get technical, myself
included, with what percentage of your
top weight should you be doing for back
down work. But for this, it's not about
percentages. It's about gradually
refining the technique. So, as long as I
position myself in a way that I can
progress every week. So next week, don't
know if I'll do a top single, I'll do a
top set, whatever that might be. But
then my back down work is going to be a
progression on that. So you could say
it's going to be two sets of five on 180
pause sumo deadlift, which is very, very
achievable.
And the idea is
to start so light that it allows room
for gradual progression. So, this is the
whole idea of the strategy of giving
yourself room to be able to
progressively overload rather than
coming in on week one and trying as hard
as I can to the point where I'm maybe
going to fail on reps or whatever it
might be. Makes it very difficult to
progress the following week,
which is what a lot of people do
whenever I speak to people. You know,
I'm a coach and I speak to people that
employ me for my services because
they've done things like plateaued in
their training. It's one of the most
common things and I'm sure you're
watching at home might be feeling the
same thing. Yeah, I've plateaued in my
training at least now or at some point
in my career in my training history. One
of the most common things and in my
opinion I believe that's a hack
is to getting through your plateaus is
to set yourself up to be able to
progress. How do you do that? by
starting your programs, your like your
messo cycles minus four weekly
conservative with a light enough load to
set yourself up to be able to add weight
every single week. And when you're going
light enough, so for me 170, no, my
technique is not perfect, but it's okay.
But if I was to start a little bit too
heavy and do my five rep max, the
technique would look terrible. So I'm
refining a technique that's not the
right technique. Whereas this way it's
familiarizing myself with movement with
a higher quality movement so that
hopefully next week I wouldn't have
built muscle from this session. I won't
build muscle. Of course I'm going to try
and eat and sleep and all the right
things but you just don't build muscle
like that. It's not like a week toe
thing. So the progressions are usually
due to
coordination. So it's neuromuscular
progressions rather than cellular
adaptations. Cellular adaptations means
building muscle. So, if I go better next
week, it's not because I built muscle
that allowed me to lift a heavy weight.
It's because my nervous system, my brain
has communicated with my body and taught
it how to coordinate itself to lift a
heavier weight. Anyhow,
stiletto squats, high bar, pause, not
super heavy, but the objective is
quadriceps
stimulus, quadriceps hypertrophy. So,
let's do that.
>> My question, what if you overshoot
yourself in the first week? What's the
progression of what?
>> Yeah. So, sometimes, you know, we're all
humans, we all make mistakes. Sometimes
you overshoot week one. Um, if that's
the case, then it sucks, right? Then
it's like, where do I go on week two?
It's really hard to be able to progress.
So, you got two options. One is to do
the same weight and try and do it
better. Or two is to reduce the weight
and start again. Either one of those is
not fun.
Do you agree? You want to be able to add
weight to the bar. You want to be able
to do better every single time you come
to the gym. Which is why if you do that,
you got to learn from it. And then the
next time you start your phase, your new
phase, learn to start conservative to
allow room to be able to progress. Also
to allow room to make errors because
sometimes we do overshoot. Sometimes we
think, oh yeah, this should be easy for
me. So therefore, I'll just do a little
bit less than that.
I recommend do a lot less than that so
that if you do come in and you're not as
strong as what you think you are because
a lot of people that is the case then
you've factored that in. So the more
conservative you start the more room for
error you can allow. So if you start too
conservative great you get to have a
really big jump on week two. But if you
start not conservative enough or if you
you know overshoot it and you've gone a
little bit too heavy it's like ah where
do I go next week? either a small
progression or no progression or you
have to bring back the weight and do it
properly.
So that's my strategy. Start extra
conservative. Second exercise for the
day is going to be my stiletto squats.
Now here's a few things that I'm going
to be different compared to if you've
been watching my last stiletto squats is
now I'm doing as the secondary exercise
after deadlifts. So although it wasn't
max effort deadlifts, it was still heavy
enough to be somewhat fatiguing for me.
And I'm coming into this part a little
bit more tired. Uh the next thing if you
have a look at my knee sleeves, these
are now SBD sleeves. Normally I use my
Inza. And if anyone knows what they feel
like, the Inza sleeves are a lot stiffer
and they give you a bit of a bounce out
of the hole. So a little bit this is a
little bit harder, but that's okay. So
the idea of this, and I recommend it for
everyone, is if you use those in sleeves
for your comp squats, don't neglect
either raw or the light sleeve work um
as an accessory. Otherwise, yeah, it was
like using knee wraps. So when I was
using knee wraps extensively, I always
made sure I did a raw session as well to
make sure that I wasn't weak in that
full knee bend position. So, that's why
I think a secondary squat session is is
pretty important if you're doing a lot
of competition style powerlifting squats
to make sure that there's no weak
points. Uh, anyway, so that being said,
today is going to be I'm not going to
focus on heavy like the number that I
have in my mind is 160 kg.
I think that's reasonable. 160 kg. Now,
whenever I do this exercise,
I don't like to speak in absolutes and
say you must do it this way, but I've
kind of come to a conclusion that with
this as a coach, when I'm queuing this,
when I'm teaching my lifters how to do
this, it's something that I never really
thought that I did, but I recommend
pausing this. Why? Because pausing takes
a lot of the aggression out of the
movement and it's a bit of a
compromising position for the knee
joint. A lot of people might look at
that if you've never done it before and
say, "Oh, my knees would hate me if I
did that or they'd hurt. It hurts me
just watching it." All of these things.
The fact is I didn't just come on here
with like really really heavy weight and
just start doing maximum knee bend
stiletto squats. I built my strength to
be able to achieve these loads, these
weights. The next thing that I recommend
is, you know, with a lot of squats, we
talk about catching the bounce. So like
weightlifters specifically do that. It's
a technique that allows them to clean
and jerk heavier weights. So they they
kind of dive bomb their squats and
they're they're pretty fast and it's a
technique that's going to allow you to
lift a heavier weight. But when it comes
to this, what we're doing is we're
really really like isolating the
quadriceps. So we're minimizing hip
bend, maximizing knee bend. So that's
why it's a great quadriceps builder. So
therefore, if you want to introduce this
into your program, these are the
precautions that I would make. Don't be
explosive with this movement.
Be conservative.
So control. Don't bounce this one.
Okay. Yes, my shoulders are stiff. Why
am I holding it so wide? Why am I
holding it so wide? Because I can't go
closer than this. The rule is to grab
the barbell as close as your shoulder
mobility allows. But my chest is very
damn tired. If you saw my last session,
I did some hypertrophy
dumbbell press work with lots and lots
of sets of 10 with flared elbow
technique which gave me some major
muscle soreness. And I'm feeling it now.
So that was only last week. So I'm
feeling it now. And I also benched again
on Saturday. So coming under the barbell
is really, really, really tight.
But otherwise, if that's what you're
thinking, why are you holding it so
wide? Aren't you meant to be holding it
close? Yeah, you are. That's just as
close as I can go.
Uh, anyway,
I'll go up in 20 kg jumps. And the goal
is 160. And I think sixes is a good
number. Three blues and a So three and a
half. Yeah, three blues and a green on
each side.
I guess it will be nice.
Um, you know, it's easy, but but it's
hard. Like, I'm just tired. So, it feels
strange to, you know, the last time I
did I was just thinking cuz I got a lots
going on in my mind when I train and I
was thinking rep work. What's the best
I've done? The best I've done is 205
actually in these sleeves as well. So,
um, 200 for five and I do believe, so on
Friday, I did 225 for one. So, I do
believe that that's pretty close to my
top end strength. So, therefore, 160 for
six should be quite easy. But, it's just
the fatigue, the accumulated fatigue is
what's making it hard. But that's okay.
That's why we have heavy sessions and
light sessions. We can't just be lifting
heavy all the time. the body needs to
recover. So my last heavy session was
Friday. Today's Monday. So this is where
I only have two days off, which is
Saturday, Sunday, and then Monday. So
it's not a lot of days from this session
from my last heavy, but Monday. Now I've
got three days of leg rest before my
next squat session. So therefore,
the idea is I come in more recovered on
Friday so that I can be performing well
for my heavy squats. But I've got one
more set to go and then I'll do
hamstring curls and then that's going to
be the end of my session.
[Music]
Second set was easier than the first.
Still just it's just fatigue hard. You
know what I mean? Uh anyway, I'm going
to do some hamstring curls now and then
I've got to eat lunch. Believe it or
not, that session took me two hours.
Damn. You know, not two hours in the
middle. I'm just, you know, mcking
around a lot. I was taking my time with
my warm-up sets and all of that. It's
not because that's how long it takes to
train that way. Obviously, I've only
done, you know, three sets of deadlifts,
two sets of squats, so it doesn't take
that long. But for me, I'm really taking
my time with my warm-up sets. That was
just a 10-minute rest between those two
sets. Not because I needed 10 minutes,
but because I wanted it and I've got the
time to be able to do that as well.
Uh anyway, I'm not going to take you
with me to do my hamstring curls. You
can just trust me that I am going to do
them and I'm going to see you guys next
time. So, hopefully you enjoy that
session. Hopefully it gives you a bit of
an insight on how to
build up sumo deadlift if you're not
familiar with the movement. How to start
low and give yourself room to be able to
progress and focus on technique over
everything
and then be patient. All right, my team.
Thank you very much for joining me. Hope
you enjoyed it and I'll see you guys
next time.